Dust and gravel washed over the left flank as the cavalry came to a screeching halt. Before the soldiers could regroup, another blast set off and exploded the tank right in the middle of the formation. The flames shot up to the sky and lit the ground exposing the positions of the soldiers. With the soldiers now clearly visible, the element of surprise was lost. For a moment all the movement stopped, only the burning and melting of metal was audible. Again, Second shot was heard on the right flank followed by a blast in the forward march. The onslaught had started. "They are here, Get in position. They are here" soldiers yelled. The onslaught had begun.

Pakistani army bathed in bullets as they struggled to recover.
The remaining men began open firing in pitch black wherever they could find a open spot. Turrets of tanks directed their fire towards the darkness ahead hoping to hit atleast one culprit. Some men managed to huddle behind the enormous tanks but sudden bullets caught them one by one.

Trapped within this chaos, Brigadier's vehicle somehow managed to escape the burning rubble and metal. He soon understood the tanks that were meant to kill the enemies had become an accessory to their own death. "We to keep moving. A stationary target is either a dead target or soon becomes one", he thought. He struggled to find the radio in the darkness. Yelling commands in to the radio, Brigadier tugged at the driver to drive the jeep ahead. 

"The cavalry has started moving", Lieutenant Atma announced as loudly as he could. Major Chandpuri stood up from his station. They had been lying on the floors of the trenches for the last 45 minutes, thus making the soldiers invisible to the enemy. Even the light emitted by the gunshots was hidden due to the blowing sand and mist.
All the soldiers saw Major stand in between the trenches. He looked as calm and resolute as ever.
"We have allowed the enemy cavalry reach in closer to our outpost than any other Indian regiment in history", Major Chandpuri began. "Our plan has worked so far. We have completely surrounded them from the sides. They have started to move ahead. There is nothing in between them and the outpost. Pakistani Army doesn't know that. We will keep it that way. Target the tanks and using the emitted light, eliminate the forward flank. Each time they try to advance 1 meter ahead, push them 10 meters back. Our strength is not firepower but the element of surprise. As discussed earlier, employ the switching manoeuvre so that we maintain a continous line of fire. Attack Now." "Bharat Mata ki Jai" echoed for a brief second accross the battlefield. 

Pakistani Cavalry was now inching ahead firing randomly in the dark.Their soldiers cowered behind the tanks to avoid the bullets. But soon either the bullets found them or the exploding tanks trapped them. The Cavalry which had started as an attack regiment was now trapped defense-less in the centre of a cold desert. Heavily armored tanks lay scorched in the sand and the strong winds swept away rubble and debry along with it. With the forward flank completely obliterated and no way to navigate through the debry in the dark, Pakistani cavalry was stuck. Brigadier got off his jeep and in the light of burning tanks, saw his soldiers colliding, falling, screaming and firing towards their invisible enemy. Stunned, he could not utter a single word. 

Brigadier Tarik could see the sky clearing up on the horizon, preparing for the sun's arrival. He turned around to see if any opening could be found to charge ahead. But all he could see was burning rubble and metal trapping them into the dirt."As the sun rises so will the Air Force and now they are an easy target for the F16s", He thought. Pakistan's dream of complete control of Longewala was crushed. The hope of catching the Indians off-guard was gone and the battle was lost. Looking at the sky again, he thought "Where did I go wrong ?". The sky was now clearly visible and this meant only one thing- impending aerial attack. He yelled "Retreat".
Picking up the radio from his belt , He screamed "Get out of this area immediately. Leave your positions and get back". Leaving the jeep in place, He ran through the sand as fast as he could.

A sonic blast echoed right from where the brigadier was standing a couple of minutes ago. Sand and rocks erupted from the ground like a tsunami washing over the shore.
The F16 fighters had arrived. Missiles were locked in to the tanks and jeeps and destroyed. Many trapped soldiers were killed but most ran away and made a successful retreat. 

120 men, with single shot rifles and no air support, had stood the ground that night, defeating 20,000 men with tanks and heavily armored jeeps. 
Indian resolve was far greater than the Pakistani dream.


